comments: true
title: Lost Conversations
id: lostconversations
draft: false
tags:
  - section/KidsCollab/Fiction
creation_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:13:49 am
last_edit_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:13:49 am
---


The wind and the waves crash against the shore, pushing, pushing, but the earth does not relinquish. And across from the sea sits an old man, sitting on a rusted metal chair looking out at the horizon, watching death steadily approach around the curve of the Earth.
What do you remember, old man? What are you reminiscing about as time slowly washes over you like the tide finally reclaiming the sand?
The time you lost a debate in year 6? The discovery you made about your mum that you never made up for? The argument and therefore estrangement of your sister? The argument you had with your wife about children? Getting reprimanded by your boss for something that you didn’t even do? How many times have words injured you and those you love? How many times have arguments cost you friendship and fellowships? How many times do you wish you could do them over?

When the waves move backwards and forwards they hide how deep the ocean really is - what pain is lurking beneath it. And you move forward wanting to change it but you can’t - the tide always ends up in the same place.
So why is this old man, full of regret and lost conversations, so important?
Because he doesn’t think about these things.
He remembers his first memory - dancing with his sister when she was just a baby and could not walk. He had pranced around her mat and laughed and made faces hoping to get her first smile.
He remembers graduation from high school, the celebration and letting go of friends. His mum was right there when he got home, exhausted and sad and dazed, letting him fall asleep on the couch just in front of the door.
He remembers marriage, and the love he held, not the frustration.
The reward of his career rather than the cost.
The hopes of life rather than the regrets.
Because though the ocean goes back and forth and moves only an inch in an entire lifetime, it does move through something else.
Time.
And when people come to the beach and walk in its waters, from surfers to little toddlers trembling at the waves, and the shells dug up and the sandcastles built and the sand that sticks with the entire family all the way home until it all ends up in the washing machine, the beach, it moves.
It moves everywhere.
And so as the Earth spins and death draws ever closer, the old man sits.
And he waits.
And he hopes the stars and the sea remember him as they live on without memory, and he watches the Sun’s descent unveil the stars.
And then
He moves on.
