---
comments: true
title: The Last Quest
draft: false
tags: [KidsCollab/Fiction, NathanW]
creation_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:09:52 am
last_edit_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:09:52 am
---

Preface: Heavily inspired (basically copied, almost) by one of the most legendary short stories of all time IMO, thelastquestion.net, by the guy who made the 3 laws of robotics, Isaac Asimov. This is, as you could say, a trial run of myself writing sci-fi, in preparation for my much, much larger project I’ve been working on for almost a year now. Feedback appreciated!
(oh, also there are quite a few deep cut sci-fi references)(and theoretically, it makes pretty much no sense) 

Part 1: Being
And there was something.
But it didn’t begin as much.
An hurried idea for a story, the proposal to a teacher, the recommendation for a short story by an author he had heard of before.
“The Last Question” by Isaac Asimov.
He reads it, enthralled, stunned by the ending, and in the night he dreams of galaxies, neverending, all the different futures proposed by the story.
When he wakes, so does something hidden deep inside him.

5 years later he is studying entropy in high school, dreaming of the reversal as described in the story. Meanwhile, a study reveals hormonal suppression leads to increased physical capability later in life. He signs up for the air force when he finishes school.

The scientists at NASA have figured out nuclear fusion; the first fusion powered rockets are developed. He yearns to fly one, but conflict in East Asia pulls him and the half the Military into battle. All soldiers are hormonally suppressed to achieve peak human fitness. A nuke has been deployed for the first time in 100 years.

The war is over, Asia is united; Russia half the size. Moon settlements are established by private companies; trips to the Moon cost the same as a journey around the world. NASA sends a manned spacecraft out of the Solar System, Hermes. He returns home only to find his parents long dead. He takes their ashes to the Moon using the money left to him from their will. Hormonal suppression has now been hardcoded into human DNA.

He is finally an astronaut, going to Mars every 50 days, extracting and transporting energy from a Phobos tether back to Earth. A scientist on the Moon discovers rocks shaped like creatures, only to find out they are living animals preserved by caldune, a special mineral found on the Moon. Europe and Africa become their own nations.

He is promoted to Head of Mars Affairs after 10 years of service. Petrifinesis, the natural preservation technique discovered by scientists on the Moon, using synthesised caldune, is released commercially. NASA loses track of Hermes, a funeral is held, and lightspeed travel is theorised possible by an Australian prodigy. The human lifespan has increased to 120 years, the age of 40 now considered peak physical health.

The Phobos Tether fails, he is moved to the Interstellar Explorer Roster on his own request. The Moon settlement gets decimated by a pandemic, the survivors are isolated by petrifinecation for the next 10 years until a vaccine is developed. The code to lightspeed travel is cracked, NASA begins planning for Hermes II.

America falls, while the entirety of NASA’s staff are planning on Mars. A private company buys the astronauts, Hermes II is scrapped and instead a bigger project is built. He meets the CEO of the company, another fan of Asimov, and promises he will do anything he can to further humanity. 

He is selected for a mission, at the age of 55. It is to the center of the galaxy, to the massive black hole that lies in the middle. He will be alone. He will be in petrifinesis for tens of thousands of years. Half the word now is governed by the East and the other half by the West. Nuclear weapons are deployed on the Moon to eradicate the budding ecosystems that arose from the caldune from spreading more disease.
Launch is now in 5 days. The ship will be called the Asimov, courtesy of his consultation.
He cannot wait.

It is minutes before he is solidified for thousands upon thousands of years, as he exits the Solar System. He recalls the short story once again, now ancient writing, from a time since passed, whereupon humanity has forgotten which galaxy they originate from. He looks back at the Sun as the liquid caldune pours over him, hoping it would still be there when he returns, if he returns. He is stone.
The spaceship activates light travel.

Not too long later, around 5 years, he is surprisingly woken up from stasis. The Asimov has stumbled upon the original Hermes, within it, the long dead astronaut. He compares the fallen explorer to a Viking, laid to rest upon his ship, sent off with not fire but the ice of space, and then he goes back to sleep.

Meanwhile, on Earth, the West defeats the East through the complete destruction and subjugation of Australia. Earth is united, but humanity will never forget what it has done to itself. The Moon colonists all collectively vote to move to Mars, plans begin to form in terms of settlement. A mysterious being is discovered near the bottom of the ocean. He sleeps onward.

Time washes past him, the space through him, as systems are traversed and stars are passed. Still he is stony, silent as a reed in a pond, slowly bending, moving, through the cycling of the planets. Halfway there.

The Earth is now one governing force in Sol compared to many; Mars, Venus and even the Moon grappling for ultimate power. Warfare is minimal but restricted to space only. The Martians create a barrier to prevent outside access to the outer planets, solely dominating interstellar travel. Knowledge of the Asimov now only belongs to obscure historians searching deep into the archives.


Millenia later, he is taken out of petri for the last time.

Part 2: Being
The black hole is impossibly large, it takes centuries at lightspeed to fully orbit the monolith. The ship fails, he is pulled into the black hole. The Asimov is destroyed around him, but he-

-watches-


                   -reforms-


-destroyed-

Stunned, he watches the Asimov form, and reform, and form, and reform, and he looks at himself and he cannot see anything. The inside of the black hole fluctuates entropy, shifting through time, reversing and fast forwarding.
Soon, he realises he can control where time moves.

Time is like space to him now, he can traverse time as you might walk around a room, going backwards, forwards, even up in time. But he recognises a black hole, while affecting the entropy of the outside world, it must obey entropy as well. The amount of time he could alter would get lower and lower until it is impossible to reset the heat death of the universe.

But heat, he soon realises, is not the fundamental node of energy. Energy can be conveyed in different ways, even when no longer usable. Energy has memory, and applied, if he saved enough, he could move it back through time and regain it again.
So he waits, and time moves on as usual.

Stars are all extinguished, the fading of the galaxies -
It is time, finally catching up.
He concentrates, using the last of the usable energy in the universe to manipulate time the last - and the first - instance, to send an idea, and inspiration, a memory, a knowing, back through quadrillions of years.
He opens his eyes, if you could still call them that, and he remembers the swirling of the cosmos, he remembers times ago, he smiles and repeats the last words of the story from long ago.
“Let there be-” he says and the cold swallows him, the abyss takes him back.
And there was something.
But it didn’t begin as much.

