---
comments: true
title: how to drown in a cheese grater
id: howtodrowninacheesegrater
draft: false
tags:
  - section/KidsCollab/Fiction
creation_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:06:44 am
last_edit_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:06:44 am
---

Your voice sounding like it’s drowning in cheese graters is not that common a phrase, mainly because it’s a terrible one. If you think about it, it’s exceptionally hard to drown in cheese graters.

THE CHALLENGE
Assuming that there is a sea of cheese graters, and you are at the bottom, to drown you could not simply run out of air. This is because if you look at cheese graters, there are a lot of holes. Air has as much space as it needs in a sea of cheese graters. Therefore, you will actually need to be crushed under the weight of the sea. This requires a lot of cheese graters, as even though they are metal, they are, as previously stated, full of holes.
A quick google search shows that 260 kg of weight is required to actually kill someone of normal size. If the target is *cough* very short *cough* then perhaps only 240kg is needed. The Microplane Black Sheep Fine Grater weighs around 300 grams.
240000/300 = 800. You would need 800 cheese graters to drown.
However, this is actually not the case. This assumes that all the cheese graters are piled up on a stack on your chest, which is unrealistic. (Ignore the fact that drowning in cheese graters is also an unrealistic scenario.)
Indeed, you would probably have to cover your entire body with cheese graters to sufficiently ‘drown’ in them, not only so that they support each but also that you do not escape and are sufficiently crushed to death.
Once again, we will use the Microplane Black Sheep Fine Grater(MBSFG) as the standard cheese grater.
Assuming the target’s height is 150cm (generous, but sure) then plugging it into all formulas the surface area amounts to about 1.60m2. To ensure that the target does not escape, we will enlarge the area to 3 square metres. This means they are thoroughly surrounded by cheese graters and will drown properly.
Now, we don’t actually need a stack of 800 cheese graters on each part of the body. A stack of 400 will do the job fine due to collective force upon the chest. The MBSFG is 30cm x 6.8cm x 1.5cm, so can cover a horizontal plane with 0.204 square metres.
3/0.204 = 14.705.
You would need roughly 15x400 = 6000 cheese graters to drown in them. The sea of cheese graters would roughly be 7 metres tall, including your own drowned body.
Now, another claim is that the voice is drowned in cheese graters. This adds another level of complications to this entire matter. How many cheese graters do you need to sufficiently ensure that the vocal cords are destroyed, or at least crushed. An exponentially larger volume of cheese graters is needed for this.
However, we’ll play it safe and try to stick to a more manageable amount of cheese graters for the sake of reasonability and time.
The vocal cords require around 2 extra cheese graters to get to the throat via the mouth. But we must remember, this is a sea of cheese graters, and we’ve stacked 400 cheese graters on top of each other 14 times. When you have a lot of one thing, they behave a lot like water, and the cheese graters will naturally flow to create a more stable structure. The weight is still sufficient to crush one’s body, but to penetrate the throat is a different matter, especially considering that the chest is the epicenter of the graters, not the head.
It is important to note that because of the skull, the brain is sufficiently protected from large volumes of cheese graters and it’s much more efficient to have the center of damage be the chest instead of the head. Other studies may prove otherwise, so I’ll leave this open for improvement.
Regardless, this important note where there are more cheese graters stacked upon the chest than other parts of the body leads to an interesting theory: could we reach the vocal cords via penetration of the stomach?
By adding another load of weight, let’s say an impressive 500 cheese graters, the already strained ribs would not be able to tolerate the mounting pressure. As typically expected of cheese graters, gravity would pull them closer to the body at such a speed as the chest caves that skin breaks and the cheese graters find themselves in the human body.
They are unfortunately exposed to stomach acid. Could this prevent them from ruining the voice?
This turns out to be a trivial matter. The MBSFG is dishwasher safe, which is essentially the same thing as stomach acid, especially if said stomach acid comes from the crushed chest of someone who is drowned in cheese graters. I don’t know what you’ve been eating, but I'm sorry to say it hasn’t been effective in keeping you alive and won’t be effective in stopping these cheese graters ruining your vocal cords.
After entering through the chest, eventually one or two of the 30cm long graters will hit the vocal cords and essentially grate them under the pressure, satisfying the conditions of the statement.
But at what cost?

THE COST
The MBSFG is a super expensive grater for no reason. On sale, it’s worth $95AUD (RP  is the exorbitant $147). I have absolutely no idea why, but they are also good cheese graters and since you are going to die I figured you should get the best quality graters you can.
However, if you want to ruin your vocal cords via drowning via cheese graters, it is also going to cost you a lot.
You will need 6100 cheese graters. This costs $579 500.
Perhaps you will say “But Nathan, what if the graters fall on you?” And this is true, that it would be more effective. But I would argue that it’s quite expensive to create a mechanism that not only holds but drops 6100 cheese graters, and you have already spent more than half a million dollars on cheese graters, so I doubt it’s very realistic to have such a process, unrealistic scenario aside.
You will also need to find a space to have this drowning. Doing it in public would be littering, which would break the law, and not many houses have 7 metre ceilings. You would probably have to hire some sort of tall room and do it there, lying down.
Transport would also be a problem. As mentioned before, 6100 cheese graters are heavy. Heavy enough to kill you. You would probably have to get a truck, and load them in. Additionally, not many stores have 6100 cheese graters in stock. In fact, there is likely none. Which is quite a shame, really, and quite unfair to those who are wishing to drown themselves in 6100 cheese graters. You would probably have to go directly to the manufacturing warehouse.
The MBSFG is produced by 3m Purification Pty Ltd, which goes through Solventum, who are based in Minnesota. Assuming you live in Australia, and want to drown near your home, a round trip to Minnesota and back costs $1283. Which isn’t much compared to half a million dollars, but still.
At this point you’re broke, tired, and probably going insane. You also have 6100 cheese graters, which, by coincidence, is the perfect amount to damage your vocal cords with.
And you lie down, exhausted. You’re ready for this, You’ve rigged something up. Any moment now, the graters will pour down onto you.
Good job. You’ve done it.
You’ve done something no one has ever done.
 . . . Except for a random employee in 1991 who I just read the injury report for. But apart from him, you’re alone.
It’s silent.
Calm.
You open your mouth to remark upon the quietness, but remember there’s no one to hear. Besides, your vocal cords are horribly mangled, and you’re dead. It’s a slight caveat to speaking.
You wonder, dead, why no one has ever tried this before.
It is, after all, grate.
