---
comments: true
title: How To Drown In Cheese Graters (Revised Edition)
draft: false
tags: [KidsCollab/Non-Fiction, NathanW]
creation_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:07:47 am
last_edit_date: Saturday, April 4th 2026, 11:07:47 am
---

This is written as a companion to the original HTDICG. It has been pointed out to me numerous follies in my supposedly foolproof argument. Hence, I will attempt to address and adapt the answer to the ever prevalent question in today’s society:

Can you drown in cheese graters?

Now, the biggest thing that has been pointed out to me is that my solution with 6100 cheese graters is that this is being crushed, not necessarily drowning, as the Cambridge definition of drowning states that one has to die via:
Being in a liquid
Being unable to breathe due to the aforementioned liquid and thus dying
We’ll address both claims, starting with the first and most troubling.
Cambridge states that drowning requires a liquid, and while I argued that the sea of cheese graters is effectively a liquid, I have been corrected that with this amount of cheese graters, a mere 6100, it’s simply not enough to create this non-Newtonian effect. What you need, effectively, is something so large that its combined mass is able to surpass that of the Earth’s, theoretically meaning that if they were all combined their gravitational force would draw more people to it than the Earth. The problem with this, of course, is that the Microplane Black Sheep Fine Grater is less dense than the average Earth, and to create this effect and have each grater act like a single atom to act like a fluid you would need to have a ball of cheese graters larger than the size of the Earth.
Considering this is practically impossible, we can also turn to a more philosophical meaning. After all, this is a matter of death, not Cheese Grater Death Stars, and it could be more fulfilling to have a better interpretation of what liquid, or furthermore water, means.
One of the most recognised and foremost philosophers of our age, Bruce Lee, famously remarked, ‘Be like water.’ He further expanded on this, saying that being water is to ‘empty your mind. Be formless, shapeless, like water. You put water into a cup—it becomes the cup. You put it into a bottle—it becomes the bottle. Water can flow, or it can crash. Be water, my friend.’ Here, Lee uses an extended metaphor and an instructive tone as well as a unique cadence to convey the true meaning of the wise words - that water adapts, changes its shape, to be what it needs to be in a moment.
We can, however, also extract a list of guidelines as to what Lee philosophically believes water to be and place cheese graters along this criteria.
Water has empty mind
Water is formless, and shapeless
It becomes what its container is
Water flows
And crashes
We can immediately see that, as an inanimate object, cheese graters fit the first criteria. While it does fall apart at the second and third, it’s important to remember the cultural roots of where the MBSFG has come from - made from stainless steel, PVD coating, and rubber foot, it knows what it's like to change. To be something different. Its ancestors may well have been galvanised beams. A handball, perhaps. Whatever PVD coating is also used for. Yes, while it may not seem like it from the outside, the Microplane Black Sheep Fine Cheese Grater is formless and shapeless, It does become what its container is. It does what it’s made for - to grate, and it serves its master in this way, performing any task it’s put towards.
Philosophically, of course.
One who has seen cheese graters at work cannot deny that they do flow in their work - the way they scale down blocks of cheese into little pieces - when it’s doing its design, the cheese grater is in absolute flow state - fulfilling criteria.
Finally, take a cheese grater and drop it. It crashed, probably. If not, you weren’t using the Microplane Black Sheep Fine Cheese Grater. That’s excusable. Someone weirdo yesterday bought 6100 and every store is sold out.
So cheese graters do meet all the philosophical criteria of being water. But this creates a logical fallacy. For we are assuming that:

Premise A: Water has an empty mind, is shapeless, formless, takes the shape of its container, flows and crashes

Premise B: Cheese graters fulfill these conditions

Conclusion: Therefore, cheese graters are water.

Now, normally, this would not follow. However, Bruce Lee provides an absolute philosophical definition of water. If cheese graters meet these conditions, then by definition cheese graters can be considered water.

Ok. Now we’ve considered, argued and justified a philosophical claim and tackled the first part of the conflict between the definition of drowning and our own solution, allow us to look at the second, more practical, criteria in drowning.

Being unable to breathe due to aforementioned liquid and thus dying

In the original, I noted that it was impossible to drown in them, because they have lots of holes. However, it has been pointed out to me by far smarter people that you could simply stack them in a way that covered all the holes.
This is a matter that Copernicus kind of looked at, however in his models he used perfect Euclidean balls(it turns out to be practical in the case of stacking cannon balls, which is a different story)  of which cheese graters are not, so we’ll have to slightly rearrange our calculations.
The arithmetic actually turns out to be quite stable. By examining the marketed picture of the MBSFG, we can see that roughly 15 stacks will be able to account for the irregular shape and pattern of holes. While this is not an optimised version, it is important to note that likely 15 is an understatement as uniform stacking with a large amount of cheese graters is something that has likely never occurred before without packaging and thus there is no sufficient or reliable data informing this estimation.
Therefore, we can simply multiply our 6100 by 15 and arrive at our new estimate, which is 91500.
The cost comes out to $8 692 500, which in common units is around 1 086 562.5 400g Pork Sizzle Steaks at Woolworths. Which is about 434 625 kg of pork steaks. Without buying in bulk.
Anyway-

OTHER THINGS POINTED OUT

Why can’t you do this in a desert?
This question was asked in regard to my statements about finding a spot to put the sea of cheese graters. Many have said that I should instead place the sea in a desert because that wouldn’t be littering. Unfortunately, the closest deserts, namely in the middle of Australia and Antarctica, fall in Australian and International Waters territory, of which littering is banned. The next closest, likely the Gobi, is in China/Mongolia and this is also banned under recorded legislation. Therefore, it’s much more cost effective to do this in a hired space rather than fly to another country, as well as the fact that it saves time.
